Citi Bike Analysis-New York

Presented is a visualization of Bike ridership among individuals in New York. The goal of this presentation is to profile Citi Bike users as well as show attributing factors in high ridership. 

The first two visuals show the plethora of bike start stations and end stations across New York. Highlighted are the 10 most popular stations of each type. There is a high density of popular start stations in the borough of Manhattan. This is a densely trafficked area, therefore a great spot for keeping bike stations. 

Furthermore, I narrowed my visualizations into analyzing usertypes and different attributes. The pie charts show that there is significantly higher bike useage among males of which many are subscribers. Furthermore, there most citi bike subscribers fall in the age range between 30 and 39.

Additionally, the treemap illustrated the comparison of ridership by Gender and user type by weekday. The graph illustrates a consistent bike ridership among subscribers during the week, while customer usage during the weekend. This provides insight into ridership reasons. Subscribers may use these bikes as a public transport and quicker method to reach work on the weekdays, while weekend temporary usage indicates more recreational use.

The final visual displays bike ridership by usertype per hour per weekday. This visual indicates higher subscriber usage in the early morning hours and evening hours especially on the weekdays, while customer usage is increased during midday hours and fairly consisted everyday of the week.

These visuals present a profile of a Customer versus a Subscriber. A customer is more like to utilize the bike reacreationally and more likely on the weekends, while a subscriber usage is consistently high on the weekdays during the typical work start and end hours. Being a tourist destination, increasing stations near popular tourist spots can definitely keep up customer ridership. Advertising in tourist areas can also encourage ridership among these areas.

Further analysis is needed to encourage increase female ridership. 

